projects/ng-hero-carousel/README.md, before:

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://www.npmjs.com/~universalux" target="_blank">
    <img src="https://github.com/universalux/uux-hub/blob/main/assets/components/angular/ng-hero-carousel/ng-hero-carousel-cover.gif?raw=true" alt="NgHeroCarousel cover" />
  </a>
</p>

# NgHeroCarousel - Angular Carousel

**ng-hero-carousel** is a **standalone, reusable, responsive and customizable component** for Angular 18, 19 and 20.

It is designed to work with **signals** and Angular **zoneless**, providing a lightweight, flexible, and accessible image carousel.

## Table of Contents

* [Instalation](#installation)
* [Basic Usage](#basic-usage)
* [Advanced Usage](#advanced-usage)
  - [Style attributes](#style-attributes)
  - [Autoplay attributes](#autoplay-attributes)
  - [Accessibility attributes](#accessibility-attributes)
  - [Adding custom content: slide for](#adding-custom-content-slide-for)
  - [Adding custom content: outerContent](#adding-custom-content-outerContent)
  - [Custom styles](#custom-styles)
* [Report or suggest something](#report-or-suggest-something)

## Installation

If you want to install the latest version (currently 20):
```bash
npm install ng-hero-carousel
```

Angular 19:
```bash
npm install ng-hero-carousel@v19-lts
```

Angular 18:
```bash
npm install ng-hero-carousel@v18-lts
```

## Basic Usage

The only **required input** for `ng-hero-carousel` is `[slides]`. All other inputs are optional and can be used to customize the carousel´s behavior and appearance.

`slides` must be an array of objects with the type `CarouselItem[]`. You can import this type directly from the library:

```ts
import { CarouselItem } from 'ng-hero-carousel';
```

### NgHeroCarousel Interface
Here is the exact declaration of the CarouselItem type:

```ts
export interface CarouselItem {
  image_url?: string;
  backgroundColor?: string;
  title?: string;
  subtitle?: string;
};
```

| Property          | Type       | Required | Description                                            |
|------------------ | ---------- | -------- | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| `image_url`       | `string`   | No       | Image URL for the slide                                |
| `backgroundColor` | `string`   | No       | Background color or gradient for the slide, if needed  |
| `title`           | `string`   | No       | Responsive title for the slide (<h2>)                  |
| `subtitle`        | `string`   | No       | Responsive subtitle for the slide (<h3>)               |

### Basic Usage example

```ts
import { NgHeroCarousel, CarouselItem } from 'ng-hero-carousel';

@Component({
  imports: [NgHeroCarousel],
  template: `
    <ng-hero-carousel
      [slides]="items()"
    />
  `
})
class App {
  items = signal<CarouselItem[]>([
   { image_url: 'img1.jpg', title: 'First Slide', subtitle: '1st slide subtitle' },
   { image_url: 'img2.jpg', title: 'Second Slide', subtitle: '2nd slide subtitle' },
   ]);
}
```

## Advanced Usage

### Optional Attributes

In addition to the "slides" attribute, there are a number of optional attributes to fully customize the carousel.

```html
<ng-hero-carousel
    [slides]="items()"

    [hasOverlay]="true"
    [transitionTime]="800"
    arrowsPlacement="auto"
    [hasCounter]="true"
    indicators="bars"

    [hasAutoplay]="true"
    [autoplayTime]="4000"
    [autoplayResumeTime]="15000"

    (selected)="selectedItem.set($event)"

    lang="en"
    accessibilityOptions="accOps()"
>
```

Below you will find a description of these optional attributes, determined by functionality.

### Style attributes

| Attribute          | Description                                                 | Type                          | Default   |
| ------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------- | --------- |
| `[hasOverlay]`     | Add an overlay on top of the background image.              | boolean                       | `true`    |
| `[transitionTime]` | Time in ms of the transition between slides                 | number                        | `800`     |
| `arrowsPlacement`  | Position of arrows (Auto: up for desktop, down for mobile)  | `'up', 'down' or 'auto'`      | `'auto'`  |
| `[hasCounter]`     | Add a counter (Ex: 1/5).                                    | boolean                       | `false`   |
| `indicators`       | Select the type of indicator for the slides                 | `'bars', 'circles' or 'none'` | `'bars'`  |

If you want to edit styles in more detail, see the styles section below.

### Autoplay Attributes

| Attribute              | Description                                                             | Type      | Default   |
| ---------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------- | --------- |
| `[hasAutoplay]`        | Select whether you want autoplay or not                                 | boolean   | `true`    |
| `[autoplayTime]`       | Time in ms in which the slide is automatically changed                  | number    | `7000`    |
| `[autoplayResumeTime]` | Time in ms to resume autoplay when it stops (e.g. clicking on a slide)  | number    | `15000`   |

### Current/selected slide output
You can use `(selected)` output to get the current slide on screen. For example, if you want to build your own counter.

### Accessibility Attributes

This component includes five default languages. When you choose one using the "lang" attribute, all accessibility settings are configured in that language, so you don't have to do anything else.

| Attribute              | Description                                              | Type                           | Default   |
| ---------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------ | --------- |
| `lang`                 | Select the language for accessibility                     | `'en', 'es', 'fr', 'de', 'it'` | `en`      |
| `accessibilityOptions` | Set up your own custom aria attributes (more info below) | `AccessibilityOptions or null` | `null`    |

*** We recommend using the lang attribute if you don't need any other languages than the ones provided by default. It's simple and compliant with WAI-ARIA standards. ***

If you want to set up your own custom aria attributes, you should use the `AccessibilityOptions` interface.
You can import it directly from the component:

```ts
import { AccessibilityOptions } from 'ng-hero-carousel';
```

Here is the exact declaration of the AccessibilityOptions type:

```ts
export interface AccessibilityOptions {
  hostAriaLabel?: string;
  autoplayPauseLabel?: string;
  autoplayPlayLabel?: string;
  prevBtnAriaLabel?: string;
  nextBtnAriaLabel?: string;
  slidesRegionAriaLabel?: string;
  slidesRegionRoleDescription?: string;
  slideAriaLabel?: (currentSlide: number, total: number) => string;
  slideRoleDescription?: string;
};
```

Here you can see a description of every field in `AccessibilityOptions` interface.
Every field is type `string` (except slideAriaLabel) and `non-required`

| Property                     | Description                                                                                       |
|----------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `hostAriaLabel`              | aria-label for the host component. Usefull to indicate the user that has entered into a carousel |
| `autoplayPauseLabel`         | aria-label for autoplay button when autoplay is playing (described action is to pause it)         |
| `autoplayPlayLabel`          | aria-label for autoplay button when autoplay is paused (described action is to resume it)         |
| `prevBtnAriaLabel`           | aria-label for the arrow button that goes to prev slide                                           |
| `nextBtnAriaLabel`           | aria-label for the arrow button that goes to next slide                                           |
| `slidesRegionAriaLabel`      | aria-label for the container of all slides                                                        |
| `slidesRegionRoleDescription` | aria-roledescription for the container of all slides (role is 'group')                            |
| `slideAriaLabel`             | aria-label for each slide. Is a function that returns the text for each slide (see example below) |
| `slideRoleDescription`       | aria-roledescription for individual slide (role is 'group')                                       |


IMPORTANT:
- All fields are optional, so you can customize only the ones you want. Fields that have not been entered in "AccessibilityOptions" will retain their values ​​based on the selected "lang" (remember, default lang is "en")

Here you have an example of use:

```ts
import { NgHeroCarousel, CarouselItem, AccessibilityOptions } from 'ng-hero-carousel';

@Component({
  imports: [NgHeroCarousel],
  template: `
    <ng-hero-carousel
      [slides]="items()"
      [accessibilityOptions]="accOpts()"
    />
  `
})
class App {
  items = signal<CarouselItem[]>([
   { image_url: 'img1.jpg', title: 'First Slide', subtitle: '1st slide subtitle' },
   { image_url: 'img2.jpg', title: 'Second Slide', subtitle: '2nd slide subtitle' },
   ]);

  accOpts = signal<AccessibilityOptions>({
    hostAriaLabel: 'Main carousel CHANGED',
    autoplayPauseLabel: 'Pause carousel autoplay CHANGED',
    autoplayPlayLabel: 'Resume carousel autoplay CHANGED',
    prevBtnAriaLabel: 'Go to previous slide CHANGED',
    nextBtnAriaLabel: 'Go to next slide CHANGED',
    slidesRegionAriaLabel: 'Wide carousel CHANGED',
    slidesRegionRoleDescription: 'Carousel CHANGED',
    slideAriaLabel: (currentSlide: number, total: number) =>
        `CHANGED - Slide ${currentSlide} of ${total}`,
    slideRoleDescription: 'CHANGED - slide',
  });
}
```

### Adding custom content: slide for

You can add the custom content you want into any slide you decide.
For doing that you must use `ng-template` and the `SlideForDirective`.

Here you have a simple example to add a button in the first slide:

```ts
import { NgHeroCarousel, CarouselItem, SlideForDirective } from 'ng-hero-carousel';

@Component({
  imports: [NgHeroCarousel, SlideForDirective],
  template: `
    <ng-hero-carousel
      [slides]="items()"
    >
      <ng-template [slideFor]="0">
        <button>
            Button in first slide
        </button>
      </ng-template>

    </ng-hero-carousel>
  `
})
class App {
  items = signal<CarouselItem[]>([
   { image_url: 'img1.jpg', title: 'First Slide', subtitle: '1st slide subtitle' },
   { image_url: 'img2.jpg', title: 'Second Slide', subtitle: '2nd slide subtitle' },
   ]);

}
```

As you can see in the example above, to add content to a slide you just need to use `ng-template` and the `[slideFor]` directive, which receives the number of slide you want to add custom content.

### Adding custom content: outerContent

You can also add content that remains visible across all slides. It will be visible even if you navigate through slides.
Example of use: imagine that the carousel is opened into a modal window. You can easily add a "close button" this way.

```ts
import { NgHeroCarousel, CarouselItem } from 'ng-hero-carousel';

@Component({
  imports: [NgHeroCarousel],
  template: `
    <ng-hero-carousel
      [slides]="items()"
    >
      <ng-template #outerContent>
        <button style="position: absolute; top: 1rem; right: 1.5rem;">
            X
        </button>
      </ng-template>

    </ng-hero-carousel>
  `
})
class App {
  items = signal<CarouselItem[]>([
   { image_url: 'img1.jpg', title: 'First Slide', subtitle: '1st slide subtitle' },
   { image_url: 'img2.jpg', title: 'Second Slide', subtitle: '2nd slide subtitle' },
   ]);

}
```

As you can see in the example above, you just have to add `<ng-template #outerContent>` and use the template reference `#outerContent`.
**IMPORTANT**: You must set the content inside `<ng-template #outerContent>` as `position: absolute` and place it where you want.

### Custom styles

You can customize styles by using different **variables in CSS**.

| CSS Variable                 | Description                                                              | Default                   |
| ---------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------- |
| `--carousel-transition-time` | Duration of the transition animation between slides                      | `1s`                      |
| `--carousel-bg`              | General background. Inherits from parent by default                      | `inherit`                 |
| `--carousel-width`           | Component width                                                          | `100%`                    |
| `--carousel-height`          | Component height                                                         | `100dvh`                  |
| `--carousel-overlay-color`   | Custom color for the overlay (only applies if `[hasOverlay]` is enabled) | `black`                   |
| `--carousel-overlay-opacity` | Custom opacity for the overlay                                           | `.5`                      |
| `--carousel-title-size`      | Font size for titles in slides when set in `[slides]` object             | `1.8rem`                  |
| `--carousel-subtitle-size`   | Font size for subtitles in slides when set in `[slides]` object          | `1.2rem`                  |
| `--carousel-text-color`      | Text color for titles and subtitles. Inherits from parent by default     | `inherit`                 |
| `--carousel-accent-color`    | Base accent color for arrows, indicators, and autoplay button            | `currentColor`            |
| `--carousel-autoplay-color`  | Custom color for the autoplay toggle button                              | `var(--carousel-accent-color)` |
| `--carousel-arrow-color`     | Custom color for arrow buttons                                           | `var(--carousel-accent-color)` |
| `--carousel-indicator-color` | Custom color for slide indicators                                        | `var(--carousel-accent-color)` |
| `--carousel-autoplay-top`    | Top position for the autoplay toggle button                              | `0rem`                    |
| `--carousel-autoplay-left`   | Left position for the autoplay toggle button                             | `0rem`                    |
| `--carousel-counter-top`     | Top position for the counter if enabled                                  | `0rem`                    |
| `--carousel-counter-right`   | Right position for the counter if enabled                                | `0rem`                    |


Examples of use:

```css
ng-hero-carousel{
  --carousel-bg: red;
  --carousel-overlay-opacity: 0.8;
  --carousel-accent-color: red;
}
```

## Report or suggest something

Choose the form that best fits your case:

- 🐞 [Report a bug](https://github.com/universalux/uux-hub/issues/new?assignees=aldaydev&labels=bug&template=angular_bug_report.yml)
- ✨ [Request an improvement for an existing component](https://github.com/universalux/uux-hub/issues/new?assignees=aldaydev&labels=bug&template=angular_feature_request.yml)
- 🧩 [Suggest a new component](https://github.com/universalux/uux-hub/issues/new?assignees=aldaydev&labels=bug&template=new_component_request.yml)

👉 Or go to the [form selector](https://github.com/universalux/uux-hub/issues/new/choose).


## License
MIT

Commit message:

60 fix error when ng hero carousel renders on ssr (#61)
* fix: ssr and prerender component now operative #60

* fix: problems with ssr on angular18 solved #60

* fix: ng-hero-carousel ssr bug fixed and released #60

projects/ng-hero-carousel/README.md, after:

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://www.npmjs.com/~universalux" target="_blank">
    <img src="https://github.com/universalux/uux-hub/blob/main/assets/components/angular/ng-hero-carousel/ng-hero-carousel-cover.gif?raw=true" alt="NgHeroCarousel cover" />
  </a>
</p>

# NgHeroCarousel - Angular Carousel

**ng-hero-carousel** is a **standalone, reusable, responsive and customizable component** for Angular 18, 19 and 20.

It is designed to work with **signals** and Angular **zoneless**, providing a lightweight, flexible, and accessible image carousel. It is also fully compatible with **SSR, CSR and prerender**.

## Table of Contents

* [Instalation](#installation)
* [Basic Usage](#basic-usage)
* [Advanced Usage](#advanced-usage)
  - [Style attributes](#style-attributes)
  - [Autoplay attributes](#autoplay-attributes)
  - [Accessibility attributes](#accessibility-attributes)
  - [Adding custom content: slide for](#adding-custom-content-slide-for)
  - [Adding custom content: outerContent](#adding-custom-content-outerContent)
  - [Custom styles](#custom-styles)
* [Report or suggest something](#report-or-suggest-something)

## Installation

If you want to install the latest version (currently 20):
```bash
npm install ng-hero-carousel
```

Angular 19:
```bash
npm install ng-hero-carousel@v19-lts
```

Angular 18:
```bash
npm install ng-hero-carousel@v18-lts
```

## Basic Usage

The only **required input** for `ng-hero-carousel` is `[slides]`. All other inputs are optional and can be used to customize the carousel´s behavior and appearance.

`slides` must be an array of objects with the type `CarouselItem[]`. You can import this type directly from the library:

```ts
import { CarouselItem } from 'ng-hero-carousel';
```

### NgHeroCarousel Interface
Here is the exact declaration of the CarouselItem type:

```ts
export interface CarouselItem {
  image_url?: string;
  backgroundColor?: string;
  title?: string;
  subtitle?: string;
};
```

| Property          | Type       | Required | Description                                            |
|------------------ | ---------- | -------- | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| `image_url`       | `string`   | No       | Image URL for the slide                                |
| `backgroundColor` | `string`   | No       | Background color or gradient for the slide, if needed  |
| `title`           | `string`   | No       | Responsive title for the slide (<h2>)                  |
| `subtitle`        | `string`   | No       | Responsive subtitle for the slide (<h3>)               |

### Basic Usage example

```ts
import { NgHeroCarousel, CarouselItem } from 'ng-hero-carousel';

@Component({
  imports: [NgHeroCarousel],
  template: `
    <ng-hero-carousel
      [slides]="items()"
    />
  `
})
class App {
  items = signal<CarouselItem[]>([
   { image_url: 'img1.jpg', title: 'First Slide', subtitle: '1st slide subtitle' },
   { image_url: 'img2.jpg', title: 'Second Slide', subtitle: '2nd slide subtitle' },
   ]);
}
```

## Advanced Usage

### Optional Attributes

In addition to the "slides" attribute, there are a number of optional attributes to fully customize the carousel.

```html
<ng-hero-carousel
    [slides]="items()"

    [hasOverlay]="true"
    [transitionTime]="800"
    arrowsPlacement="auto"
    [hasCounter]="true"
    indicators="bars"

    [hasAutoplay]="true"
    [autoplayTime]="4000"
    [autoplayResumeTime]="15000"

    (selected)="selectedItem.set($event)"

    lang="en"
    accessibilityOptions="accOps()"
>
```

Below you will find a description of these optional attributes, determined by functionality.

### Style attributes

| Attribute          | Description                                                 | Type                          | Default   |
| ------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------- | --------- |
| `[hasOverlay]`     | Add an overlay on top of the background image.              | boolean                       | `true`    |
| `[transitionTime]` | Time in ms of the transition between slides                 | number                        | `800`     |
| `arrowsPlacement`  | Position of arrows (Auto: up for desktop, down for mobile)  | `'up', 'down' or 'auto'`      | `'auto'`  |
| `[hasCounter]`     | Add a counter (Ex: 1/5).                                    | boolean                       | `false`   |
| `indicators`       | Select the type of indicator for the slides                 | `'bars', 'circles' or 'none'` | `'bars'`  |

If you want to edit styles in more detail, see the styles section below.

### Autoplay Attributes

| Attribute              | Description                                                             | Type      | Default   |
| ---------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------- | --------- |
| `[hasAutoplay]`        | Select whether you want autoplay or not                                 | boolean   | `true`    |
| `[autoplayTime]`       | Time in ms in which the slide is automatically changed                  | number    | `7000`    |
| `[autoplayResumeTime]` | Time in ms to resume autoplay when it stops (e.g. clicking on a slide)  | number    | `15000`   |

### Current/selected slide output
You can use `(selected)` output to get the current slide on screen. For example, if you want to build your own counter.

### Accessibility Attributes

This component includes five default languages. When you choose one using the "lang" attribute, all accessibility settings are configured in that language, so you don't have to do anything else.

| Attribute              | Description                                              | Type                           | Default   |
| ---------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------ | --------- |
| `lang`                 | Select the language for accessibility                     | `'en', 'es', 'fr', 'de', 'it'` | `en`      |
| `accessibilityOptions` | Set up your own custom aria attributes (more info below) | `AccessibilityOptions or null` | `null`    |

*** We recommend using the lang attribute if you don't need any other languages than the ones provided by default. It's simple and compliant with WAI-ARIA standards. ***

If you want to set up your own custom aria attributes, you should use the `AccessibilityOptions` interface.
You can import it directly from the component:

```ts
import { AccessibilityOptions } from 'ng-hero-carousel';
```

Here is the exact declaration of the AccessibilityOptions type:

```ts
export interface AccessibilityOptions {
  hostAriaLabel?: string;
  autoplayPauseLabel?: string;
  autoplayPlayLabel?: string;
  prevBtnAriaLabel?: string;
  nextBtnAriaLabel?: string;
  slidesRegionAriaLabel?: string;
  slidesRegionRoleDescription?: string;
  slideAriaLabel?: (currentSlide: number, total: number) => string;
  slideRoleDescription?: string;
};
```

Here you can see a description of every field in `AccessibilityOptions` interface.
Every field is type `string` (except slideAriaLabel) and `non-required`

| Property                     | Description                                                                                       |
|----------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `hostAriaLabel`              | aria-label for the host component. Usefull to indicate the user that has entered into a carousel |
| `autoplayPauseLabel`         | aria-label for autoplay button when autoplay is playing (described action is to pause it)         |
| `autoplayPlayLabel`          | aria-label for autoplay button when autoplay is paused (described action is to resume it)         |
| `prevBtnAriaLabel`           | aria-label for the arrow button that goes to prev slide                                           |
| `nextBtnAriaLabel`           | aria-label for the arrow button that goes to next slide                                           |
| `slidesRegionAriaLabel`      | aria-label for the container of all slides                                                        |
| `slidesRegionRoleDescription` | aria-roledescription for the container of all slides (role is 'group')                            |
| `slideAriaLabel`             | aria-label for each slide. Is a function that returns the text for each slide (see example below) |
| `slideRoleDescription`       | aria-roledescription for individual slide (role is 'group')                                       |


IMPORTANT:
- All fields are optional, so you can customize only the ones you want. Fields that have not been entered in "AccessibilityOptions" will retain their values ​​based on the selected "lang" (remember, default lang is "en")

Here you have an example of use:

```ts
import { NgHeroCarousel, CarouselItem, AccessibilityOptions } from 'ng-hero-carousel';

@Component({
  imports: [NgHeroCarousel],
  template: `
    <ng-hero-carousel
      [slides]="items()"
      [accessibilityOptions]="accOpts()"
    />
  `
})
class App {
  items = signal<CarouselItem[]>([
   { image_url: 'img1.jpg', title: 'First Slide', subtitle: '1st slide subtitle' },
   { image_url: 'img2.jpg', title: 'Second Slide', subtitle: '2nd slide subtitle' },
   ]);

  accOpts = signal<AccessibilityOptions>({
    hostAriaLabel: 'Main carousel CHANGED',
    autoplayPauseLabel: 'Pause carousel autoplay CHANGED',
    autoplayPlayLabel: 'Resume carousel autoplay CHANGED',
    prevBtnAriaLabel: 'Go to previous slide CHANGED',
    nextBtnAriaLabel: 'Go to next slide CHANGED',
    slidesRegionAriaLabel: 'Wide carousel CHANGED',
    slidesRegionRoleDescription: 'Carousel CHANGED',
    slideAriaLabel: (currentSlide: number, total: number) =>
        `CHANGED - Slide ${currentSlide} of ${total}`,
    slideRoleDescription: 'CHANGED - slide',
  });
}
```

### Adding custom content: slide for

You can add the custom content you want into any slide you decide.
For doing that you must use `ng-template` and the `SlideForDirective`.

Here you have a simple example to add a button in the first slide:

```ts
import { NgHeroCarousel, CarouselItem, SlideForDirective } from 'ng-hero-carousel';

@Component({
  imports: [NgHeroCarousel, SlideForDirective],
  template: `
    <ng-hero-carousel
      [slides]="items()"
    >
      <ng-template [slideFor]="0">
        <button>
            Button in first slide
        </button>
      </ng-template>

    </ng-hero-carousel>
  `
})
class App {
  items = signal<CarouselItem[]>([
   { image_url: 'img1.jpg', title: 'First Slide', subtitle: '1st slide subtitle' },
   { image_url: 'img2.jpg', title: 'Second Slide', subtitle: '2nd slide subtitle' },
   ]);

}
```

As you can see in the example above, to add content to a slide you just need to use `ng-template` and the `[slideFor]` directive, which receives the number of slide you want to add custom content.

### Adding custom content: outerContent

You can also add content that remains visible across all slides. It will be visible even if you navigate through slides.
Example of use: imagine that the carousel is opened into a modal window. You can easily add a "close button" this way.

```ts
import { NgHeroCarousel, CarouselItem } from 'ng-hero-carousel';

@Component({
  imports: [NgHeroCarousel],
  template: `
    <ng-hero-carousel
      [slides]="items()"
    >
      <ng-template #outerContent>
        <button style="position: absolute; top: 1rem; right: 1.5rem;">
            X
        </button>
      </ng-template>

    </ng-hero-carousel>
  `
})
class App {
  items = signal<CarouselItem[]>([
   { image_url: 'img1.jpg', title: 'First Slide', subtitle: '1st slide subtitle' },
   { image_url: 'img2.jpg', title: 'Second Slide', subtitle: '2nd slide subtitle' },
   ]);

}
```

As you can see in the example above, you just have to add `<ng-template #outerContent>` and use the template reference `#outerContent`.
**IMPORTANT**: You must set the content inside `<ng-template #outerContent>` as `position: absolute` and place it where you want.

### Custom styles

You can customize styles by using different **variables in CSS**.

| CSS Variable                 | Description                                                              | Default                   |
| ---------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------- |
| `--carousel-width`           | Component width                                                          | `100%`                    |
| `--carousel-height`          | Component height                                                         | `100dvh`                  |
| `--carousel-bg`              | General background. Inherits from parent by default                      | `inherit`                 |
| `--carousel-overlay-color`   | Custom color for the overlay (only applies if `[hasOverlay]` is enabled) | `black`                   |
| `--carousel-overlay-opacity` | Custom opacity for the overlay                                           | `.5`                      |
| `--carousel-title-size`      | Font size for titles in slides when set in `[slides]` object             | `1.8rem`                  |
| `--carousel-subtitle-size`   | Font size for subtitles in slides when set in `[slides]` object          | `1.2rem`                  |
| `--carousel-transition-translate-y` | `Transform: translateY` for slide content when it appears or disapears                | `-2rem`                      |
| `--carousel-text-color`      | Text color for titles and subtitles. Inherits from parent by default     | `inherit`                 |
| `--carousel-accent-color`    | Base accent color for arrows, indicators, and autoplay button            | `currentColor`            |
| `--carousel-autoplay-color`  | Custom color for the autoplay toggle button                              | `var(--carousel-accent-color)` |
| `--carousel-arrow-color`     | Custom color for arrow buttons                                           | `var(--carousel-accent-color)` |
| `--carousel-indicator-color` | Custom color for slide indicators                                        | `var(--carousel-accent-color)` |
| `--carousel-autoplay-top`    | Top position for the autoplay toggle button                              | `0rem`                    |
| `--carousel-autoplay-left`   | Left position for the autoplay toggle button                             | `0rem`                    |
| `--carousel-counter-top`     | Top position for the counter if enabled                                  | `0rem`                    |
| `--carousel-counter-right`   | Right position for the counter if enabled                                | `0rem`                    |


Examples of use:

```css
ng-hero-carousel{
  --carousel-bg: red;
  --carousel-overlay-opacity: 0.8;
  --carousel-accent-color: red;
}
```

## Report or suggest something

Choose the form that best fits your case:

- 🐞 [Report a bug](https://github.com/universalux/uux-hub/issues/new?assignees=aldaydev&labels=bug&template=angular_bug_report.yml)
- ✨ [Request an improvement for an existing component](https://github.com/universalux/uux-hub/issues/new?assignees=aldaydev&labels=bug&template=angular_feature_request.yml)
- 🧩 [Suggest a new component](https://github.com/universalux/uux-hub/issues/new?assignees=aldaydev&labels=bug&template=new_component_request.yml)

👉 Or go to the [form selector](https://github.com/universalux/uux-hub/issues/new/choose).


## License
MIT
